Welcome back guys in this video I want to talk about control systems and any control system we have
what we call planet or a process.
And actually this contains a different mass mannequin emboldening or different mismanagement equations
and govern the planet.
We have an input and produces an output.
If you want an example imagine that we are right things a mathematical equations of a suspension system
we have an input of the disturbance of the road and the output is a response of the chassis or the response
of the wheel and actually in any control system we want to control the output.
We want to add a certain input to produce a desired output like for example a DC motor you want to add
a certain voltage in order to have a certain speed on the shaft.
The first thing to do that is you want to measure is the object of your system.
So in any control system we have what we call a feedback and actually feedback may contains some different
types of sensors.
Two measures of Woods a planet or the system produces it calls feedback because this signal which is
output is a feedback again to what we call a controller a controller is a brain of the control system.
So it's a process of controlling any system consists of having a blunted supply can be for example a
DC motor.
So we have our metro circuit of this DC motor.
We have the field circuit and we have for example to work and so on.
So we are applying crucial flows on the circuit and we are applying that mechanical or Newton's low
on this to work to produce will because most medical modelling of this planet smiling and modelling
we defines inputs and outputs of the system and we add some sensors lags a potential meter in order
to measure the speed or the output of this DC motor and we feedback this signal to what we call the
controller a controller is a brain or the smart part of the system like API.
The controller actually the controller tells what is the required input in order to produce a specific
output based on some equations or some calculations which are done in this controller.
So feedback is a signal and we are sensing error here or between the desired output and outputs upon
it.
Produce on the situation and calculations are done here in the controller in order to provide a certain
output which is input to this planet to produce the desired output.
So in any control system you need to define or to do three steps.
Step number one is to lose a mathematical modelling of your system.
Step number two is to select the feedback measurements so authors that you can select the different
sensors two measures of different object.
Step number three is to design your controller.
You may for example want to use API the controller and the controller or the plane of the system relates
and you input or the input to the system to the desired output.
What are the types of any control systems.
Actually we have two types of control system.
Number one continuous system.
If your system input or different parameters are changing was timed so we call this continuous system.
An example is a DC motor you have a voltage which is changes over time and the output is the speed of
the motor which is also changing over time.
For example the suspension of a car you have a certain input which is a disturbance or a bump of the
road.
It can be for example sine wave.
It's changing with time and the output is a response of the Chelsea or the response of the suspension
system which is also changing with time so inputs and different variables which we call state variable
change over time.
So next time is discrete in this time the inputs and different variables of the system change between
some defined points.
So in this system you feed an input and you have a sudden change of your output if you want an example
we can imagine you often for example you are feeding a signal of 1 or 0 to cook something and paste
on this input.
That often states changes immediately and at once to another state which is cooking your food for example
to the input here is discrete one to turn on the oven and the output is also discrete which is cooking
state can also switch off your oven by adding a discrete input like zero and the output is changing
the over state from cooking to turned off a good topic on discrete systems is designing is a finite
state machine and actually in this course you will find a complete section talking about how to use
semi link in order to define finite state machines are funded state machines are used in many applications
around you like oven microwaves washing machines maybe for example air conditioning traffic lights and
many applications in automotive so this course will teach you how to use finance state machine as an
application of discrete systems in order to design sometimes of discrete systems.
That's all for this section.
Thank you guys for watching and seems the next section.
Don't forget to downloads Expedia from the electorate's horses.